.TH finit 8 "MAY 2023" "01.0" "fiss man page"

.PP
.SH NAME

.PP
fiss - a UNIX process no 1 
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS

.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR when running as PID 0 (as init) 
.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR <0|6> when running regulary to controll init 
.PP
.SH CONTROLLING

.PP
If \fB\fCfinit\fR is invoked by any other user than \fIroot\fR, it failes. 
.PP
\fB\fCfinit\fR 0 halts the system 
.PP
\fB\fCfinit\fR 6 reboots the system 
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
\fB\fCfiss\fR must be run as Unix process no 1 if invoked without arguments and handles the boot process in user-land. 
.PP
This happens in three stages: 
.PP
.SH STAGE 1

.PP
\fB\fCfiss\fR runs \fI/etc/fiss/start\fR and waits for it to terminate. The system's one time tasks are done here. \fI/etc/fiss/start\fR has full control of \fI/dev/console\fR to be able to start an emergency shell if the one time initialization tasks fail. If \fI/etc/fiss/start\fR crashes, \fB\fCfinit\fR will skip stage 2 and enter stage 3. 
.PP
.SH STAGE 2

.PP
\fB\fCfiss\fR starts all services in \fI/etc/fiss/service.d\fR which should not return until system shutdown; if it crashes, it will be restarted. 
.PP
.SH STAGE 3

.PP
If \fB\fCfiss\fR is told to shutdown the system, it terminates stage 2 if it is running, and runs \fI/etc/fiss/stop\fR. The systems tasks to shutdown and possibly halt or reboot the system are done here. If stage 3 returns, \fB\fCfinit\fR checks if the file 
.PP
.SH SIGNALS

.PP
\fB\fCfinit\fR only accepts signals in stage 2. 
.PP
If \fB\fCfinit\fR receives a CONT signal and the file \fB\fCfinit\fR is told to shutdown the system. 
.PP
if \fB\fCfinit\fR receives an INT signal, \fB\fCfinit\fR restarts the system. 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO

.PP
fiss-init(8), runsvdir(8), runsvchdir(8), sv(8), runsv(8), chpst(8), utmpset(8), svlogd(8) 
.PP
.SH AUTHOR

.PP
Friedel Schön <derfriedmundschoen@gmail.com> 