.TH fsvc 8 "MAY 2023" "0.3.2" "fiss man page"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR \- fiss' service controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR \fB\fCstart\fR [\fIoptions\fP] [\fB\fC\-\-pin_\fR] <service>
.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR \fB\fCstop\fR [\fIoptions\fP] [\fB\fC\-\-pin\fR] <service>
.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR \fB\fCenable\fR [\fIoptions\fP] [\fB\fC\-\-once\fR] <service>
.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR \fB\fCdisable\fR [\fIoptions\fP] [\fB\fC\-\-once\fR] <service>
.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR \fB\fCkill\fR [\fIoptions\fP] <service> <signal|signo>
.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR \fB\fCstatus\fR [\fIoptions\fP] [\fB\fC\-\-check\fR] [<service>]
.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR \fB\fCpause\fR [\fIoptions\fP] <service>
.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR \fB\fCresume\fR [\fIoptions\fP] <service>
.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR \fB\fCswitch\fR [\fIoptions\fP] [\fB\fC\-\-reset\fR] <runlevel>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fB\fCfsvc\fR is a command line tool for controlling services on a fiss system. It provides various commands for starting, stopping, enabling, disabling, sending signals to, checking the status of, pausing, resuming, and switching the runlevel of services.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The following options are available for every command:
.PP
\fB\fC\-q, \-\-short\fR
Will print brief information about the service.
.PP
\fB\fC\-r, \-\-runlevel <runlevel>\fR
Will use \[rs]fBrunlevel\[rs]fB instead of \fIdefault\fP\&.
.PP
\fB\fC\-s, \-\-service\-dir <path>\fR
Will use \fB\fCpath\fR as service directory instead of \fI/etc/fiss/service.d\fP\&.
.PP
\fB\fC\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Prints verbose information.
.PP
\fB\fC\-V, \-\-version\fR
Prints the version and exits.
.PP
The following options are available per command:
.PP
\fB\fC\-p, \-\-pin\fR
Pins the state. If issued with \fB\fCstart\fR it will cause the service to restart.
If issued with \fB\fCstop\fR it will cause the service to be hold down.
.PP
\fB\fC\-o, \-\-once\fR
Specifies that the service should only be enabled/disabled once and not automatically started/stopped on subsequent bootups.
.PP
\fB\fC\-c, \-\-check\fR
Command will return \fI0\fP if the specified service is active otherwise \fI1\fP
.PP
\fB\fC\-r, \-\-reset\fR
Specifies that the switch command should reset all running services (if manually set to up/down)
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
The following commands are available:
.PP
\fB\fCstart\fR
Starts the specified service. A synonym is \fB\fCup\fR\&.
.PP
\fB\fCstop\fR
Stops the specified service. A synonym is \fB\fCdown\fR\&.
.PP
\fB\fCenable\fR
Enables the specified service, causing it to automatically start on subsequent bootups.
.PP
\fB\fCdisable\fR
Disables the specified service, causing it to not start automatically on subsequent bootups.
.PP
\fB\fCkill\fR
Sends the specified signal or signal number to the specified service. A synonym is \fB\fCsend\fR\&.
.PP
\fB\fCstatus\fR
Displays the status of the specified service. If no service is specified, displays the status of all services.
.PP
\fB\fCpause\fR
Pauses the specified service.
.PP
\fB\fCresume\fR
Resumes the specified service.
.PP
\fB\fCswitch\fR
Switches the runlevel to the specified value.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR finit (1), 
.BR fsvc (8), 
.BR fsvs (8), 
.BR halt (8), 
.BR modules-load (8), 
.BR shutdown (8),
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Friedel Schön <\[la]derfriedmundschoen@gmail.com\[ra]>
